Hello and welcome to the movie today
about varnish ...
Today on the Satin Finish planer varnish.
This outside use is a product
high-build, solvent intended
above all for people who care about
emphasizing the advantages of wood. On using the measure,
which will leave a satiny, light gloss. If it depends
us to make our garden architecture
it had a light flavor, it glowed slightly,
she had a high gloss this preparation as much as possible
is indicated. If we talk about preparations
high-sheat, it has to be mentioned right away
about the fact that the coating applied in the right way
they will protect the wood very well, before
UV rays, against fungi and mold,
and through moisture. We must, of course, remember
so that the wood is healthy, dry. Manufacturer here
gives a maximum humidity of 16%, you can be tempted
by 18%, but more humid wood should not be.
Of course, we must remember that it is
varnish and it does not penetrate wood,
it's quite dense, it stays on the surface so we have to
apply some impregnation. In this case
Wood Preserver. If it is said that it is
medium quite thick. Here when it comes to indications
manufacturer is recommended spray application
or also with a brush. I will tell you, however,
that after the turmoil it is quite dense. It seems to me,
that one would be tempted to try to impose this
preparation with a roller, but if already brush
(because not everybody has the opportunity to spray).
If we do not have soft brushes, such strictly
for varnish, we can take an ordinary brush
universal and wipe it before painting
several times on sandpaper, firstly
it will eliminate the hair that is supposed to fall out
and it will soften the end of this brush.
So it's worth it before each painting
treatment done. Applying rather dry almost with a brush.
We do not take much of this preparation because there are streaks.
But if we took this measure too much,
and these streaks have arisen, we do not have to stress
because after a while we can use a clean, dry brush
and spread out the stain varnish and stretch it
all these streaks. The painting itself is quite
nice. Personally, I like to use these denser drugs.
You can also stretch it longer (apply), it is this one
a margin of time to distribute possible
streaks, streaks or small shortcomings.
I wanted to mention one more thing.
We must remember that when finishing the surface
sandpaper, we have to count with it,
that if we finish the surface with thick paper,
quite aggressive (I finished at 80), it's a color
it will penetrate deeper than the surface that has been left
finished with paper 220. So, more
a smooth surface, the color will penetrate more shallowly.
This is very well seen with the rest. These are pine
staves, 1 layer was applied and see
what is the difference in color. To get a better effect
(here I have a stave where 3 layers are applied)
Then Jarek will probably do close-ups where he can be seen
already this gloss, but to emphasize aesthetics
the applied layer is worth after applying 1 layer
mate her. Regarding the drying time, if
we paint in the summer (around 20 degrees C), it's surface
this preparation dries in about 4-6 hours,
but it is recommended before applying the next layer
wait 16 hours. Do not hurry! Because if
we'll coat the next layer too quickly, then
the solvent from the second layer will start to dissolve
drying coat of the first layer. So thinner
layers, give it time to dry and apply
at least 3 layers. Then the effect will be
very satisfactory. When talking about varnish stains,
I will mention it, although we will be sure
make a film about stains to the inside.
How I read in the opinion of other people,
this is the pain of many of us. Choose a stain
and varnish or choose a varnish? I'll tell you,
that for me a more satisfactory visual effect
gives the use of stain and varnish, but for those
who prefer convenience, of course varnish will be
more desirable, but ... there are more but you have to count
with the fact that you have to try to apply.
One more thing that applying stain we must
reckon with the fact that it will penetrate deeper into the wood,
than a stain varnish, i.e. the color will be more intense.
As with other preparations that protect
before UV rays, use as dark as possible.
Pigment protects against these rays and if we have
colorless this Satin Finish, let's use it
as the last layer or to lighten the color.
However, let us not only paint it because it will not fulfill its role.
If we do everything according to the guidelines,
Wood Preserver, healthy, dry wood, respectively
applied at least 3 layers, then we can
be calm from 5 to 8 years even.
It is also a measure that does not break, does not flake off
it is quite resistant to mechanical damage.
I highly recommend him. End of talking!
I think you should try it yourself.
On the subject of varnish today it is all.
Thank youvery much for attention!
Subtitles by the Amara.org community